# Home_Credit_Default_Risk
README: Summary of business problem and project objective.
README: Your group's solution to the business problem.
README: Your contribution to the project
README: The business value of the solution.
README: Difficulties that your group encountered along the way.
README: What you learned in the project.

There is a vast amount of borrowers who experience difficulty getting a loan they have the ability to repay due to a range of factors from insufficient credit histories to non-existent data in areas that have historically been used to determine default risk. A borrower's inability to provide proof of credit accountability can lead to these clients being taken advantage of by untrustworthy lenders or being unable to obtain a loan from a trusted institution. Additionally, without sufficient financial and credit histories for customers, it becomes more difficult for lenders to identify and predict which customers are at risk of default and what factors are contributing to the risk assessmet. This leads to a mis-identification between both groups, where both customers who are likely to default are given loans, which immensely costs the business, and customer's who are reliable borrowers are denied the opportunity to obtain a loan and potential clients are lost.  
The project objective is to create a supervised analytical model to help Home Credit predict how capable each applicant is of repaying a possible loan, giving them the ability to intervene before borrowers default and reach an underserved population. Our group's solution to this business problem was to create a various predictive models to show important factors of default that Home Credit has data available for as well as improve the firm's ability to capture reliable borrowers who historically have not been given loans. Our final model was a Random Forest model with tuned hyperparameters that returned important insights into what factors contribute to default risk as well as an improved performance over the null model of always predicting no default.
My contribution to the project was creating a Decision Tree and Random Forest model with tuned hyperparameters. Additionally, I created visualizations to illustrate relationships between the variables during our EDA process and compared the customers our model predicted would default to the actual defaulters to contextualize how much our model would save the business. Lastly, I compared the distributions of various important predictors in both the predicted defaulters and the actual defaulters to see if our model impacted the current customer base for Home Credit. The business value of the solution is $505,160,164 which is the estimated greater ROI of random forest model over majority classifier performance in the normalized currency value that the dataset is in. This solution assumes simple interest rate of 18.912% (based on median prior median rate) and the principal is fully recoverable.


